.TH "getABIfield" 1 "" "" "Staden Package"
.SH "NAME"
.PP
getABIfield \- extract arbitrary components from an ABI file

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP

\fBgetABIfield\fP [\fBOPTIONS\fP] \fIfilename\fP [\fBField-ID\fP [
\fBCount\fP]] ...

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP

The \fBgetABIfield\fP command extracts specified blocks from an ABI
file and displays them in a variety of formats. The ABI file may be
considered as a directory structure with files (data blocks) contained
within it. Supply just the ABI filename as an argument will give a
listing of the blocks.

To extract specific data one or more ``name count'' pairs need to be
specified.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP

.TP
\fB-a\fP
Dump all blocks.

.TP
\fB-D\fP \fIseparator\fP
Sets the output field separator for elements within a date and
time format. Dates default to ``yyyy/mm/dd'' format and times default
to ``hh:mm:ss.xx''.

.TP
\fB-F\fP \fIseparator\fP
Sets the output field separator to be a specified character.
This defaults to space.

.TP
\fB-f\fP \fIformat\fP
Reformat the data to a specific style. By default the data is
listed in the format specified within the ABI file.
\fIformat\fP should be chosen of \fB1\fP(1-byte integer),
\fB4\fP(2-byte integer), \fB5\fP(4-byte integer),
\fB7\fP(4-byte real), \fB8\fP(8-byte real), \fB10\fP(date),
\fB11\fP(time), \fB18\fP(Pascal-string), \fB19\fP(C-string).

.TP
\fB-h\fP
Displays data in hex format. By default the output format will be
chosen based on the data type (eg string, integer, floating
point).

.TP
\fB-I\fP \fIfofn\fP
Instead of reading the single file specified on the argument list
this reads a list of filenames from \fIfofn\fP. If \fIfofn\fP is ``-''
then the file of filenames is read from 'stdin'.

.TP
\fB-L\fP \fIseparator\fP
Sets the line separator between multiple blocks listed within a
single file. Defaults to newline.

.TP
\fB-l\fP
Sets the output field separator to be a newline.

Query mode. Here no output is displayed, but it simply returns true
or false depending on whether any of requested comments were found.

.TP
\fB-r\fP
Displays data in raw byte format.

.TP
\fB-t\fP
Enable tagged output format. Each name/count pair are listed on a
single line in the format ``filename name count data...''.
.TE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP

To extract the run dates in a tagged format for all the ab1 files in
the current working directory:

.nf
.in +0.5i
ls *.ab1 | getABIfield -t -I - RUND
.in -0.5i
.fi

To see the order of the processed data channels (e.g. ``GATC'') on a
single file:

.nf
.in +0.5i
getABIfield 3150.ab1 FWO_
.in -0.5i
.fi

To see the processed trace data for the first channel (e.g. ``G'')
with one sample point per line:

.nf
.in +0.5i
getABIfield -l 3150.ab1 DATA 9
.in -0.5i
.fi

To obtain the version numbers of the various trace processing steps:

.nf
.in +0.5i
getABIfield -t 3150.ab1 SVER 1 SVER 2 SVER 3
.in -0.5i
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP

\fBget_comment\fR(1)
\fBscf\fR(4)
